Create the 3.42 release post (#5571)
sourcegraph/about: content/blogposts/2022/release-3.42.md

---
title: "Sourcegraph 3.42 release"
publishDate: 2022-07-22T10:00-07:00
description: "Sourcegraph 3.42 introduces new admin analytics, a new search UI in Beta, alternate search suggestions, and upgrades for code insights running on repo lists and monorepos."
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/3.42"
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/3.42/sourcegraph-3-42.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/3.42/sourcegraph-3-42.png
changelogItems:

>   - description: 'Further improved search-based code navigation for Python using tree-sitter. The upgrades to jump-to-definition have been extended to more kinds of variables such as class fields for more accurate cross-file navigation.'

Reviewer: @iskyOS - should this be "We further improved...

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/38459
    category: Search
  - description: 'The homepage UI has been cleaned up, and panels such as recent searches are no longer visible by default. They can be re-enabled by setting "experimentalFeatures.showEnterpriseHomePanels" to true.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/37984
    category: Search
  - description: 'We have moved to CodeMirror from Monaco for all our search query inputs, resulting in faster and better quality search suggestions. You can switch back to Monaco by setting "experimentalFeatures.editor": "monaco" in the config.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/38584
    category: Search

>   - description: 'Added experimental support for exporting traces to an OpenTelemetry collector by adding "observability.tracing": { "type": "opentelemetry" } to the config.'

Reviewer: Will readers understand what this is/why it's valuable?

Author: @abschu I believe so, yes. I can change the category to "Observability". Devs should understand tracing (and especially Eng Managers or DevEx folks) — it's a key part of service monitoring nowadays.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/37984
    category: Admin
  - description: 'Gitserver endpoint access logs can now be enabled for added visbility by adding "log": { "gitserver.accessLogs": true } to the config.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/
    category: Admin
---

Sourcegraph 3.42 is now available! For this release, we introduced:

## All-new admin analytics

> We believe providing a world-class admin-experience is critical to the future of Sourcegraph customers around the world. This starts with empowering administrators to measure and track the value of Sourcegraph within their organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We believe providing a world-class admin experience is critical for the success of Sourcegraph customers. This starts with enabling administrators to measure and track the value of Sourcegraph within their organization.
```

Changed admin-experience to admin experience. Also removed "around the world" - it felt repetitive with "world-class."

> Historically, Sourcegraph administrators rely on word-of-mouth feedback from developers, leading to a poor understanding of the value of Sourcegraph within an organization. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Historically, Sourcegraph administrators relied on word-of-mouth feedback from developers, leading to a poor understanding of the value of Sourcegraph within an organization. 
```

> In 3.42, we are releasing a completely redesigned user analytics experience for administrators. These visualizations will make it easier to understand developer engagement, identify power users, and convey value to their internal leaders. 

Reviewer: @iskyOS @ryphil - does "user analytics experience" suggest tracking devs? Should we just say "a redesigned analytics experience for administrators?"

Reviewer: CC @Joelkw

Reviewer 2: @abschu - Saw your suggestion below and accepted it. That was indeed confusing. We are releasing new analytics for *admins* to visualize usage of their instance.

> In 3.42, we are releasing a completely redesigned user analytics experience for administrators. These visualizations will make it easier to understand developer engagement, identify power users, and convey value to their internal leaders. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 3.42, we are releasing a completely redesigned analytics experience for administrators. These visualizations will make it easier to understand developer engagement, identify power users, and measure the value of Sourcegraph. 
```

> ![Admin analytics page](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/3.42/admin_analytics.png)

Reviewer: @iskyOS - a big portion of the image is the margins in the browser - not a blocker, but is it possible to show more of the UI and less of the margins?

Author: ```suggestion
![Admin analytics page](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/3.42/admin_analytics_v2.png)
```

> ## New search UI, now in Beta

Reviewer: @benvenker @lcolston08  @iskyOS - this explains a lot about how to access the UI, but doesn't explain what is new about it. What specifically is new about it?

> We're fixing UX papercuts and working to improve the core search experience. 3.42 includes a new, optional Beta UI, which can be enabled via a toggle in the avatar menu. It's disabled by default but we encourage you to give it a try. We think you'll find it cleaner and easier to use. You can find the toggle just below the theme dropdown in the avatar menu.

Author: ```suggestion
We're fixing UX papercuts and working to improve the core search experience. 3.42 includes a new, optional Beta UI, which can be enabled via a toggle in the avatar menu. Filters have moved to the right and are now collapsible, search results are more compact and individually expandable, and buttons in the header have been combined to reduce clutter.

This UI is disabled by default but we encourage you to give it a try. We think you'll find it cleaner and easier to use. You can find the toggle below the theme dropdown in the avatar menu.
```

> ![](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/code_search/beta-ui.gif)

Author: ```suggestion

![](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/code_search/beta-ui.gif)
```

## Search by repository descriptions

We've introduced a new search predicate that enables searching by repository description, for example: `repo:has.description(machine learning)`. Now you can search for interesting repository topics, even if you don't know their names.

This is especially useful for engineers joining new teams or onboarding to a codebase at a new company, so you can quickly find repositories without knowing exactly what you're looking for.

> ![](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/code_search/repo-description-search.png)

Author: ```suggestion

![](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/code_search/repo-description-search.png)
```

Author: ```suggestion

![Search for repository by description](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/code_search/repo-description-search.png)
```

## Smart search suggestions with lucky search

> We have a new search type available experimentally, called "Lucky search". It improves the quality of your search experience by giving you smart suggestions for alternate queries, and it even runs them automatically to make sure they have results before recommending them. You can enable it by setting `"search.defaultPatternType": "lucky"` in settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have a new search type available experimentally, called "Lucky search." It improves the quality of your search experience by giving you smart suggestions for alternate queries, and it even runs them automatically to make sure they have results before recommending them. You can enable it by setting `"search.defaultPatternType": "lucky"` in settings.
```

> ![Search suggestion example](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/code_search/lucky-search.png)

Author: ```suggestion

![Search suggestion example](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/code_search/lucky-search.png)
```

> ## Code insights scoped to explicit repository lists load faster and include more historical datapoints

Reviewer: Should Code Insights be capitalized?

Reviewer: @Joelkw @iskyOS - is this accurate:
Code Insights now load faster and include more historical data points

Is it necessary to say that it's scoped to explicit repository lists in the headline?

Author: @abschu @Joelkw I think that change is fine, and the details can be in the body of the highlight.

Author: ```suggestion
## Insights load faster and include more historical datapoints
```

<video className="blog-image" title="Faster code insights" alt="An example of code insights loading faster" autoplay loop muted playsinline>
  <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.42/3.42InsightsSpeedImprovements.mp4" />
</video>

> Code insights running over an explicit list of repos now behave like insights running over all repositories. 

Reviewer: @iskyOS - Did you decide to make all Code Insights references capitalized?

Author: @abschu, I was trying to do that, but I couldn't find a good way to rewrite this one to refer to the product rather than the charts. Do you think it should be caps even in the current context?

Author: ```suggestion
Insights running over an explicit list of repos now behave like insights running over all repositories. 
```

---
title: "Sourcegraph 3.42 release"

> publishDate: 2022-07-22T10:00-07:00

Author: ```suggestion
publishDate: 2022-07-25T10:00-07:00
```

> description: "Sourcegraph 3.42 introduces new admin analytics, a new search UI in Beta, alternate search suggestions, and upgrades for code insights running on repo lists and monorepos."

Reviewer: @iskyOS - Should Code Insights be capitalized here?

Author: Yes! Good catch — saw this earlier but forgot to change.

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Sourcegraph 3.42 introduces new admin analytics, a new search UI in Beta, alternate search suggestions, and upgrades for Code Insights running on repo lists and monorepos."
```

tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/3.42"
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/3.42/sourcegraph-3-42.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/3.42/sourcegraph-3-42.png
changelogItems:

>   - description: 'We further improved search-based code navigation for Python using tree-sitter. The upgrades to jump-to-definition have been extended to more kinds of variables such as class fields for more accurate cross-file navigation.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - description: 'We further improved search-based code navigation for Python using tree-sitter. The upgrades to jump-to-definition have been extended to more kinds of variables, such as class fields, for more accurate cross-file navigation.'
```

  - description: 'The homepage UI has been cleaned up, and panels such as recent searches are no longer visible by default. They can be re-enabled by setting "experimentalFeatures.showEnterpriseHomePanels" to true.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/37984
    category: Search
  - description: 'We have moved to CodeMirror from Monaco for all our search query inputs, resulting in faster and better quality search suggestions. You can switch back to Monaco by setting "experimentalFeatures.editor": "monaco" in the config.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/38584
    category: Search
  - description: 'Added experimental support for exporting traces to an OpenTelemetry collector by adding "observability.tracing": { "type": "opentelemetry" } to the config.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/37984
    category: Admin
  - description: 'Gitserver endpoint access logs can now be enabled for added visbility by adding "log": { "gitserver.accessLogs": true } to the config.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/
    category: Admin
---

Sourcegraph 3.42 is now available! For this release, we introduced:

> ## All-new admin analytics

Reviewer: Measure the value of Sourcegraph with admin analytics

Author: ```suggestion
## Measure the value of Sourcegraph with admin analytics
```

## Search by repository descriptions

We've introduced a new search predicate that enables searching by repository description, for example: `repo:has.description(machine learning)`. Now you can search for interesting repository topics, even if you don't know their names.

This is especially useful for engineers joining new teams or onboarding to a codebase at a new company, so you can quickly find repositories without knowing exactly what you're looking for.

![Search for repository by description](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/code_search/repo-description-search.png)

## Smart search suggestions with lucky search

We have a new search type available experimentally, called "Lucky search." It improves the quality of your search experience by giving you smart suggestions for alternate queries, and it even runs them automatically to make sure they have results before recommending them. You can enable it by setting `"search.defaultPatternType": "lucky"` in settings.

![Search suggestion example](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/code_search/lucky-search.png)

> ## Insights load faster and include more historical datapoints

Reviewer: For the headline, this should be "Code Insights" - sorry I misunderstood this on Slack.

Author: ```suggestion
## Code Insights load faster and include more historical datapoints
```
